Numbers And Math Contd...

 Python programming language as a calculator.
 
Terminal Ex
  print(1 + 5)
  a = 88
  b = 103
  print(a + b)
  print(0.6/0.2)
  print(0.6//0.2)
  mass_stone = mass_kg * 2.2 / 14
 round function
 print (round(3.14159265, 2))
  
  c = -36
  d = 25
  print(c + d)
  Because integers can be both positive and negative numbers (and 0 too), we can add a negative number with a positive number:
  e = 5.5
  f = 2.5
  print(e + f)
  Because we added two floats together, Python returned a float value with a decimal place.


  g = 75.67
  h = 32
  print(g - h)
  Here, we subtracted an integer from a float. 
  Python will return a float if at least one of the numbers involved in an equation is a float.

4. Variables and Names

  A variable is a name for something. 
  If they didn’t use good names for things in their software, they’d get lost when they tried to read their code again.

What are the variables in Python?
  Python - Variable Types. Variables are nothing but reserved memory locations to store values with names to refer. 
  This means that when you create a variable you reserve some space in memory. 
  Based on the data type of a variable, the interpreter allocates memory and decides what can be stored in the reserved memory.


So what are variables?
  Similar to how my name ”kavitha” is a name for, ”The human who teaches this course.” 
Programmers use these variable names to make their code read more like English.

Do you have to declare variables in Python?
 There's no need to declare new variables in Python. 
 If we're talking about variables in functions or modules, no declaration is needed. 
 Just assign a value to a name where you need it: mymagic = "Magic" . ... 
 Scope: Variables have scope, so yes it is appropriate to have variables that are specific to your function.


ex4.py
Make sure you know what=is called(equals) and that its purpose is to give data(numbers,strings, etc.) names (cars_driven, passengers).

ex4_1.py

Can we write x=100 instead of x = 100? 
  You can, but it’s bad form. You should add space around op- erators like this so that it’s easier to read.

Multiple Assignment
  Python allows you to assign a single value to several variables simultaneously. For example −
  a = b = c = 1
  Here, an integer object is created with the value 1, 
  and all three variables are assigned to the same memory location. 
 
Multiple Objects to Multiple Variables
  You can also assign multiple objects to multiple variables. For example −
  a,b,c = 1,2,"john"
  Here, two integer objects with values 1 and 2 are assigned to variables a and b respectively, 
  and one string object with the value "john" is assigned to the variable c.

Standard Data Types
  The data stored in memory can be of many types. 
  Ex: a person's age is stored as a numeric value 
  and his or her address is stored as alphanumeric characters. 
  
  Python has various standard data types that are used to define the operations possible on them and the storage method for each of them.
  Python has five standard data types −

  Numbers
  String
  List
  Tuple
  Dictionary

Python Numbers
  Number data types store numeric values. Number objects are created when you assign a value to them. For example −
  var1 = 1
  var2 = 10
  You can also delete the reference to a number object by using the del statement. 
  You can delete a single object or multiple objects by using the del statement. For example −
  del var
  del var_a, var_b
  
  Python supports four different numerical types −
    int (signed integers)
    long (long integers, they can also be represented in octal and hexadecimal)
    float (floating point real values)
    complex (complex numbers)

How can I round a floating point number? 
  You can use the round() function like this:round(1.7333).

HW.4
1. Write comments above each of the variable assignments in ex4.py & ex4_1.py.



